# CIND 820 Data Analytics Final Project


By: Matthew Whitcombe\
Supervisor: Dr. Ceni Babaoglu

**Project Stages:**
1) **Selecting a Theme:** Two themes were chosen for my project:
     - The first theme is *Data Mining & Knowledge Discovery*
     - The second theme is *Classification, and Regression*

2) **Choose a Dataset:** The raw dataset used to perform this analysis was generated by:
>Roldán, María Carina, modified by Gus Segura (2014, June). Sample Sales Data; Version 1. [Retrieved Sept 13, 2022] from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kyanyoga/sample-sales-data?resource=download
3) **Prepare an abstract:** The abstract outlines the questions that this analysis will address. The analysis will provide answers to the following questions: for the period 2006-2008, what will be the future sales and inventory demands per country, which products will be popular in the countries the company ships to, which country will contribute the most and the least to the organization’s overall sales. In addition, the abstract will set out the theme, and give some information about the chosen dataset

4) **Prepare a Literature Review:** Research multiple papers, and/or books that discuss topics similar to the forecast analysis questions. In the literature review, the authors’ main conclusions were summarized and comparisons between the authors were drawn where applicable.

5) **Data Exploration:** Scan through the data and determine which data will be useful in the analysis. In addition, it is important to look for possible areas of the dataset that may need to be cleaned. Cleaning the dataset will help to improve its quality. The absence of a clean dataset could lead to errors or incorrect results. An example of the cleaning process is I converted all the fields in the Order Date column from a “Character” type to a “Date” type, but in order to do so first I needed to removed the time-stamp from the date variables.

6) **Approach:** The following are the steps I'll take in order to perform the analysis of my dataset:
   - Data Collection
   - Data Exploration
   - Pre-Processing
   - Forecast Analysis
   - Interpretation

7) **Initial Results and the Code:** Execute the steps mentioned in the approach section of the project. (I.e. cleaing the dataset, loading in the R packages needed to perform the analysis, use differnt analysis approaches to obtain different results which would allow for comparisons)

8) **Final Results and Project Report:** In this final stage, the results of the forecast analysis will be presented and discussed. It is expected that the findings of the data analysis will answer the initial questions. Any shortcomings of the data analysis will be identified. Concluding remarks on the continuity of the work will also be provided.

9) **Presentation:** The findings of this analysis will be presented to two examiners.
 

**Contents in my Repository:**

*In My Repository:*
 - My data exploration R file labeled "CIND820 Data Review"
 - The raw dataset used for the analysis, it is labeled as "sales_data_sample.csv"
 - My Initial Code file named "Initial Code MWhitcombe.rmd"
 - PDF version of my technical reports in R, named "Initial-Code-MWhitcombe.pdf
